Reading and Thinking
1 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups
Experience a national park
2 Skim the text. Match the subheadings with the paragraphs. 
  A Land of Mountains and Ice
  A Land of Adventure 
1 What kinds of parks have you been to? What were they like? 
2 When you think of national parks, what comes to mind first? 
1I wake up to the sound of the wind buffeting the cloth of my tent. Even though the sun is brightly 
shining, telling whether it is morning or night is impossible. I?m above the Arctic Circle, where in summer
the sun never sets. Checking my watch, I see that it is 7:30 a.m. I leave my tent and walk over to the 
mountain edge. Spreading out before me, branches of the Rapa River flow through the valley below. I¡¯m 
in the remote far north of Sweden in Sarek National Park, a place with no roads or towns. 
2
Sarek¡¯s mountains used to be covered by vast sheets of ice. Around 9,000 years ago, this ice 
melted, leaving behind about 100 glaciers. Soon after, reindeer began to arrive. Following the 
reindeer were the Sami people, who made this territory their home. Getting here is quite difficult, 
so apart from the Sami very few people have ever seen Sarek. In 1909, Sarek was made a national 
park in order to keep the land in its natural state. Though the Sami are allowed to continue their 
traditional way of life in the park, no one else can live here, and all new development is banned
within park boundaries. At the far side of the valley, an ancient Sami cottage is visible. Close by, 
there are a few reindeer feeding on grass.
3
For hundreds of years, looking after reindeer was 
a way of life for the Sami. They used the reindeer¡¯s 
meat for food, their bones for tools, and their skin for 
making clothes and tents. Since reindeer were always 
on the move, the Sami would pick up their tents and 
accompany them. Today, most Sami have houses in 
villages near Sarek and live a modern life just like their 
neighbours. But every spring, a small number of Sami 
still follow their reindeer into the valleys of Sarek, living 
SAREK NATIONAL PARK
¡ªEUROPE¡¯S HIDDEN NATURAL TREASURE 
  Man at Peace with Nature
  A Summer Where the Sun Never Sleeps 
Use subheadings
Good subheadings catch 
the reader¡¯s eye and 
make him or her want 
to read more. Working 
out the idea behind the 
subheadings can help 
you better understand 
the structure and the key 
points of the text.
6 UNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS

ami cottage is visible. Close by, 
Í³±à°æUNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
3 Read the text again and answer these questions.
1 How many hours a day does the sun shine in summer in Sarek?
2 What steps has the Swedish government taken to keep Sarek in its natural state?
3 How has life changed for the Sami? Why might so few Sami want to live in Sarek? 
4 Why does the writer think the sweat and hard work is worth it? 
5 Would you like to visit Sarek? Why or why not?
4 Are these senses used to describe Sarek in the text? If so, explain how. 
5 Complete the passage using the correct forms of the words from the text. 
In the remote far north of Sweden, in Sarek National Park above the Arctic Circle, I wake 
up to the sound of the wind b  the cloth of my tent. Standing at the e
of the mountain, watching the Rapa River f  through the valley below, I feel so 
b  to be alive and have this rare opportunity to explore this unique  , 
which is almost unknown to the outside world. 
Once covered by v  sheets of ice, Sarek¡¯s mountains are home to the Sami, the 
native residents of the park. The Sami lived off reindeer, moved with them, and a
them for hundreds of years. Today, most Sami have left their ancient c  in the 
mountain valleys and live a modern life in villages near Sarek instead. 
To keep its natural state, except for the Sami, no one is allowed to live in Sarek, and all new 
development is b  within the park b . It is hoped that Sarek National Park 
will always remain as it is, natural and beautiful.
6 Work in groups. Discuss these questions.
1 Is it worth making a place like Sarek a national park? Give your reasons.
2 Do you think setting up national parks is an effective way to balance development and the 
protection of nature? Why or why not? 
in tents or old cottages and enjoying their traditions. I am not a Sami, but in Sarek I¡¯ve adopted
some of their habits. For example, this morning my breakfast is flat bread warmed over a fire, dried 
reindeer meat, and some sweet and sour berries that I found growing near my tent. 
4
After breakfast, I pack my bag and set out again. Since I must carry all of my food and supplies 
with me, my bag weighs about 30 kilograms. If today is anything like yesterday, it will be full of 
sweat and hard work as I hike over this difficult land to my destination on the other side of the 
valley. However, I cannot complain. Being in such a beautiful and wild place makes me feel blessed
to be alive. Here I am, alone under this broad sky, breathing the fresh air, and enjoying this great 
adventure. What could be better? 
Sight Touch Smell Taste Sound
27
oved with them, and a
t their ancient c in the 
k instead. 
llowed to live in Sarek, and all new 
It is hoped that Sarek National Park 
e your reasons.
 to balance development and the 
Í³±à°æLearning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
2 Work out the meanings of the underlined words in the sentences below and 
state whether they are compounds or derivatives.
1	 I?believe?that?a?journalist?should?be?completely?objective.
2 Whenever I sneeze, my English teacher says, ¡°Bless you!¡±
3 We are impressed by the vastness and breathtaking beauty of the oceans. 
4 He?bought?a traditional tea set?at?the airport: a nice teapot and four teacups
5 He ordered the dish labelled ¡°Pumpkin Pie and Ice?Cream¡±
1 Match each word with its proper meaning and make a sentence with it.
A the outer limit of an object
B an official or legal prohibition
C a meal with several dishes from which people serve themselves
D move carefully towards something
E far from, not close
F officially or legally prohibit
G (especially of wind or wave) strike repeatedly with a lot of force
H (informal) a device for controlling something else from a distance
1 buffet v.
2 buffet n. 
3 edge v.
4 edge n. 
5 ban v.
6 ban n.
7 remote adj.
8 remote n.
( )
( )
( )
( )
( )
( )
( )
( )
boundary visible remote vast on the move ban set up
The Northeast Tiger and Leopard National Park was in Jilin and Heilongjiang, with 
stretching all the way to the border and joining with Russia¡¯s wildlife reserves. 
This new park is nearly four times larger than the old wildlife park protecting 
Siberian tigers in Northeast China. Over the years, increased development in the area affected 
the tigers¡¯ habitat, and it was thought that by 1998 there were only six to nine wild Siberian 
tigers living in the region. However, a on development put in place 
in 2015 resulted in a population increase of the species, and now the area is 
thought to have about 35 tigers and 70 leopards. The problem, however, was that the old 
park was too small to support further population increases. Always , Siberian 
tigers and leopards need large areas to hunt for food. This larger park, with a connection to 
Russia¡¯s wildlife reserves across the border, should give these species the natural space they 
need to live in.
3 Complete the passage below with the correct forms of the words in the box.
8 UNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
evelopment in the area affected 
re only six to nine wild Siberian 
on development put in place 
 species, and now the area is 
lem, however, was that the old 
. Always , Siberian 
rger park, with a connection to 
 species the natural space they 
Í³±à°æUNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
1 Identify the function of the -ing form in the sentences below. Then find more 
sentences with the -ing form from the reading passage and state their functions. 
Getting here is quite difficult. 
Being in such a beautiful and wild place makes me feel blessed to be alive. 
2 Rewrite each of the following sentences using the -ing form as the subject. How 
does the sentence focus change?
EXAMPLE
It is challenging yet really fascinating to hike through the mountains in the pathless Sarek. 
Hiking through the mountains in the pathless Sarek is challenging yet really fascinating.
1 It is both challenging and rewarding to study abroad. 
2 It would hardly be possible to go on a hiking tour in Sarek in winter due to the extreme cold. 
3 Honestly, it can be both exciting and terrifying to explore a vast unknown land. 
4 It is good to adopt a positive attitude, even when things are difficult. 
5 It is strongly advised to hire local guides, because they can offer accurate knowledge of
  Sarek culture and history. 
3 Fill in each blank using the -ing form of a verb from the box and state its 
function. One word will be used twice. 
combine cover grow take limit walk experience
Xixi National Wetland Park, 10 square kilometres in western Hangzhou, is the 
first national wetland park in China. city life, nature, and wetlands makes the park 
a popular destination both for tourists and local residents. At Xixi, a boat tour, 
  along paths, and local customs and traditions of the villages in this park 
are at the top of the list of people¡¯s favourite activities. With trees, bushes, and colourful flowers 
  along the riversides, the park shows different sides of beauty in different seasons. 
In order to better develop as well as preserve this 
place, human impact on Xixi Wetland 
was considered by the park designers. All the 
new buildings were designed in a traditional way 
to fit into the natural environment. This green, 
watery world is home to many birds and fishes. 
With trees in the shallows, the 
wetland is a natural system for providing clean 
water and producing oxygen, which makes it the 
¡°green lungs of Hangzhou¡±.
4 Choose a place in your city or town as a destination for a school trip. Use the 
passage above as an example and write about your choice. 
Discover useful structures 
29
n for a school trip. Use the 
r choice. 
Í³±à°æUsing Language
Visit a city park
1 Look at the photos taken in Beijing Olympic Forest Park. Match them with the 
activities below. Write the correct letter in each circle.
A rent a cycle B walk through an underwater corridor 
C rent a pedal boat D watch a fountain performance 
E go on a children¡¯s ride F look at flowers 
2 Linlin and Yuhui are taking Jake to Beijing Olympic Forest Park. Listen to their 
conversation. Tick which activities they are going to do above.
3 Look at the map. Listen to the conversation 
again and finish the activities below. 
1 Draw the route that Jake, Linlin, and Yuhui 
will take.
2 Mark the places they will visit on the map below. 
Listen for directions
Listening for directions can be difficult, 
as often a lot of information is given in a 
short time. You could listen for sequence 
words and direction words. You can also 
try to form a mental map of where you are 
going while the other person is talking.
0 UNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
Í³±à°æUNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
Asking for and giving directions
Excuse/Pardon me. Do you happen to know where ... is?
How do I get to ...? How far is ...?  
Is ¡­ nearby? Is ... close to ...? 
Is ... far from ...? It¡¯s on the north/south/east/west side of the park. 
It¡¯s about ... metres north of ... Go through ¡­
Walk/Go along the river/path ... Follow the (main) path to ...
When you see the ..., you are close to ... It¡¯s ... metres from here. 
Go straight ahead (until you come to ...).
Explore theme parks and write about a par
1 Read the text and then fill in the table on page 32.
THEME PARKS
FUN AND MORE THAN FUN
Which theme park would you like to visit? There are various kinds of theme 
parks, with different parks for almost everything: food, culture, science, cartoons, 
movies, history, and so on. Some parks are famous for having the biggest or 
longest roller coasters, others for showing famous sights and sounds. Whichever 
and whatever you like, there is an incredible theme park that will appeal to you!
The theme park you are probably most familiar with is Disneyland, 
which can be found in several parts of the world. Disneyland will 
bring you into a magical world and make your childhood dreams 
come true. Travelling through space, visiting a pirate ship, or 
meeting an adorable fairytale or cartoon character are all possible 
at Disneyland. As you wander around the fantasy amusement 
park, you may see Snow White or Mickey Mouse in a parade or 
even on the street. Of course, Disneyland also has many exciting 
rides to amuse you, from enormous swinging ships to scary freefall drops. If you want to have fun and more than fun, come to 
Disneyland!
4 Work in pairs. Role-play visiting the park. Take turns giving directions to different 
places in the park. Use the words and phrases below to help you. 
31
sement 
rade or 
exciting 
ary freeome to 
Í³±à°æDollywood, in the beautiful Smoky Mountains in 
southeastern USA, is unique because it shows and 
celebrates America¡¯s traditional southeastern culture. 
Famous country music groups put on performances there 
all year round, indoors and outdoors. People come from 
all over America to see skilled workers make wood, glass, 
and iron objects in the old-fashioned way. Visiting the 
candy shop and trying some of the same kind of candy 
that American southerners made 150 years ago is a rare
experience. Riding on the only steam engine still working in the southeastern United States is a 
special treat. And for those who like rides, Dollywood has a superb old wooden roller coaster, 
Thunderhead. It is world-famous for having the longest track in the smallest space. Come to 
Dollywood to have fun learning all about America¡¯s historical southeastern culture!
A B C DDisneyland
(various locations)
Travel through space; 
visit a ;;A parade of 
Dollywood in 
Thunderhead
  put on 
performances there
Chimelong Ocean 
Kingdom in 
Water fight against 
pirates; exciting roller 
coaster; water rides
Whale Shark 
Aquarium; 
; 
polar bears
Plenty of restaurants 
with 
Using Language
Chimelong Ocean Kingdom in Zhuhai, China, is one of the leading ocean-themed parks in the 
world. Here you can walk under the Whale Shark Aquarium¡ªthe world¡¯s largest¡ªand see 
up to 20,000 fish, in addition to a whale shark 68 metres in length. Watching the dolphin and 
sea lion shows is both educational and fun. Of course, you can also see all kinds of interesting 
animals, including polar bears. The park has more rides than you can imagine: join a water fight 
against pirates, get turned upside down by an exciting roller coaster, or get wet in one of the 
water rides! Then at night, see the splendid Journey of Lights Parade and fireworks display. 
Hungry? The park has plenty of restaurants with tasty food for every appetite¡ªyou can even 
eat while watching the fish swim by. If it is ocean entertainment that you are looking for, come 
to Chimelong Ocean Kingdom!
2 UNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
D
 on 
here
; 
Plenty of restaurants 
with 
Í³±à°æUNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
2 Study the language features.
1 The table on page 32 shows the introductions to each theme park. What headers would 
you give for columns A to D? 
A Name and location BC D2 Find the following items in the text, and then discuss in groups how they are used and what 
they add to the text.
A adjectives B if-clauses C imperatives
3 Use what you have learnt to write an introduction to a park.
1 Choose the park you wish to write about.
2 Make a mind map about the park.
3 Use your notes to write your draft.
(Name of park) in (place)
4 Exchange your draft with a partner.
1	 Use the checklist to help you review your partner?s draft.
Is the introduction clear?
Does the writer include all the important points about the park?
Does the writer provide any additional information about the park?
Does the writer use -ing forms? 
Does the writer use correct grammar, punctuation, and spelling?
2 Take your draft back and revise it.
5 Post your introduction in the classroom or read it to your class.
Food Rides
Attractions Other
Shows
33
bout the park?
 about the park?
n, and spelling?
your class.
Í³±à°æAssessing Your Progress
1 Read the passage and fill in the blanks with the correct forms of the words in 
the box. 
vast remote fascinating territory bless accompany appeal to
My name is Svetlana and I have worked as a guide at Lake Baikal ( ±´¼Ó¶ûºþ ) for more than 
10 years. Lying in a pretty location in Siberia, the deep and lake with 
more than 300 rivers flowing into it is one of the world¡¯s greatest natural wonders. 
Every season, I and guide tourists. Baikal is a with unique wildlife, 
breathtaking beauty, and local culture. 
Ancient, inspiring, mysterious, and beautiful, Lake Baikal visitors like no other place 
on the earth. I feel to have been born here, and I am looking forward to many more 
years of welcoming visitors to an unforgettable experience at Baikal.
2 Answer these questions using the -ing form of the verb phrases in brackets. 
Then write down at least two more questions and answers of your own.
1 What impressed you most when visiting Zhangye Danxia Geopark? (see the colourful 
mountains and rocky landscape)
2 What tops the list of tourists¡¯ favourite activities in Zhangjiajie? (admire the magnificent 
peaks/landscape, take a raft ride, experience the local customs of the Tujia people and the 
Miao people)
3	 What do tourists like to do at Guilin?s Li River? (take a boat tour, admire the karst landscape)
4 What activities would appeal to adventurous tourists in Lijiang, Yunnan Province? (view 
glaciers at Yulong Snow Mountain, listen to the sound of rushing water at Tiger Leaping 
Gorge)
REFLECTING 
  What did you learn about parks that you did not know before?
  What else would you like to learn about parks?
  Of the parks in this unit, which would you like to visit most? Why?
  What problems did you or your friends have in studying this unit? How did you solve 
  them? What advice did you give each other?
  Overall, I thought this unit was interesting useful so-so difficult.
4 UNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
ushing water at Tiger Leaping 
efore?
 st? Why?
  this unit? How did you solve 
 so-so difficult.
Í³±à°æUNIT 3 FASCINATING PARKS
*Project: Create your ideal theme park
1 Discuss these questions in groups.
1 What kind of theme park do you want to create? You can choose one of the ideas below, 
  or one of your own.
life in space ocean adventure food
life in the future local culture science birds and fish
history stories dinosaurs climbing
2 What will your park offer visitors? Come up with at least three things for each category 
  below, and give them interesting names.
2 Assign group members to prepare the following:
a short introduction to the park.
a large and colourful map of the park showing where everything is located.
small pictures of the things discussed.
3 Put your introduction, map, and pictures together to make a poster. 
Use the poster below to help you.
4 Present your poster to the class, and give an introduction to your theme park.
Rides and attractions Shows and events Restaurants and food stands
CHANG¡¯E LUNAR WONDERLAND
Looking for excitement and adventure? 
Welcome to the fantastic Chang¡¯e Lunar Wonderland, 
where past dreams become future reality!
Giant 
Roller Coaster
Houyi¡¯s Suns
  Moon Palace
Chang¡¯e Theatre
Magical Mooncakes
Taikonaut Space Bar
Pigsy¡¯s Restaurant
The White Rabbit
Light Show
Jade Emperor¡¯s 
Music Show
35
Houyi¡¯s Suns
 Moon Palace
ror¡¯s 
ow
Í³±à°æ* Video Time
BioBlitz: Life in 24 Hours
This video shows a BioBlitz in Rock Creek 
Park, which runs through Washington, DC. 
¡°Bio¡± means life, while ¡°blitz¡± means a quick, 
energetic effort to do something. 
BEFORE YOU WATCH
Work in groups. Use the phrases in the box to describe what is going on in the 
photos, and then discuss what you think a BioBlitz is
WHILE YOU WATCH 
Decide if the following statements are true (T) or false (F).
1 Dr Pimm says, ¡°The extraordinary thing about this BioBlitz is just how 
little stuff there is here! There really aren¡¯t many wild animals here.¡± T F2 Park rangers show a group how to catch frogs. T F3 David Littschwager is taking photos of insects. He says, ¡°I don¡¯t like 
spiders.¡± T F4 Even at the end, there were a lot of plants and creatures that they 
couldn¡¯t identify. T F5 The real purpose of the BioBlitz is to get people interested in the 
biodiversity that¡¯s all around them, even in their own backyards. T Fpark ranger 
people wearing orange 
vests
a person holding a frog
a woman showing how to 
use a butterfly net
an insect trying to escape 
a Petri dish£¨ÅàÑøÃó£©
a man taking photos
AFTER YOU WATCH 
 
hat they 
T F
 in the 
yards. T F
y. Do you think there is as much 
ind man different kinds of lants 
Í³