Reading and Thinking
14 14
UNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
Exchange views on smart homes
1 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups.
1 What does it mean when we say that 
something such as a phone is °∞smart°±?
2 What do you think a °∞smart°± house can do 
that other houses cannot? 
2 Skim the text and answer these 
questions.
1 What is the purpose of the text?
2 Who is the intended audience of this text?
SMART HOMES TO MAKE LIFE EASIER
The types of phrases used in a passage help identify 
its purpose. For example, the phrase in my opinion 
tells us that the passage is likely meant to persuade. 
And a text that uses imperatives is likely meant 
to instruct. A passage°Øs content helps identify its 
audience. For example, a passage that gives tips 
on looking after pets would have pet owners as its 
audience.
Identify purpose and audience
Have you ever forgotten to lock the door 
of your house? Or, have you ever forgotten 
to switch off the TV or computer? These 
kinds of things happen to us all the time, 
waste resources, and can sometimes 
lead to problems. However, in the nottoo-distant future, we will be living in 
smart homes that will lock the door for 
us when we are away and remember to 
switch off the TV when we forget. These 
smart homes will keep us secure, save us 
energy, and provide a more comfortable 
environment to live in. 
Intelligent Controls

Today, we have to use switches for our 
lights, knobs for our appliances, and 
remote controls for our TVs and air 
conditioners. In the future, we will be 
using advanced technology every day 
for automatic control of just about 
everything in our home. The future home 
will use integrated sensors to tell when 
you leave home each morning, and then 
go into an energy-efficient mode all by 
itself. You will no longer have to think 
about turning switches on and off yourself. 
Your home will also learn your daily 
routine and preferences, so everything 
will be ready for you when you get home 
each evening. Your lights will come on the 
instant you enter the door along with your 
favourite music or TV programmes, and 
you will find your dinner already prepared 
for you. All controls will respond to voice 
commands, so if you want to change your 
routine, you just say aloud what you want 
and the home system will obey.
Regular Health Checks

In addition, your smart home will be 
monitoring your health for you every day. 
Your bed, for example, will record how 
well you sleep every night. It will also be 
checking your body weight. If you start 
to have sleep or weight problems, it will 
14 14
your smart home will be 
ur health for you every day. 
 example, will record how 
 every night. It will also be 
r body weight. If you start 
 or weight problems, it will 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE 15
3 Read the text again and fill in the table below.
4 Complete the summary using the correct forms of the words from the text.
A smart home is one that i  computers into the structure of the building itself. In this 
way, many of the things that we now do ourselves will become a . For example, the 
smart home could control the air conditioning and lights so that you would no longer have to 
turn s  on and off, making your home more energy-e . The smart home 
could also m  itself to make sure that everything is working as it should, and send 
you w  if there is a problem. Such smart homes could even be programmed to 
d  your health problems, and then give you r  advice as to the food you 
should eat or if you should see a doctor. So, in a sense, smart homes will lead us to living smarter 
lives.
5 Work in groups. Discuss these questions.
1 In what way is the home of tomorrow already the home of today?
2 What might be some of the disadvantages of smart homes
In the future, what will smart homes do about °≠?
doors dinners
TVs, computers beds
water pipes, 
electrical wires toilets
lights, favourite music, or TV programmes
send a warning to your phone. It will also 
give you suggestions on a healthier diet 
and how to sleep better. Smart toilets will 
be keeping constant track of your health 
as well. They can warn you early on if 
there is something abnormal or if you 
have a critical illness, such as cancer, and 
potentially save your life.
No More Disasters

Smart homes will be able to prevent 
serious damage from accidents. For 
example, if a water pipe starts leaking, or if 
there is a short in the electrical wiring, your 
smart home will detect it and provide you 
with the relevant information. This way, 
you will be able to fix the problem before 
your home becomes flooded or catches fire.
This smart technology is not a fantasy. 
Many of these new innovations are already 
available and being used in some homes. In 
this sense, the home of tomorrow is already 
the home of today. Nevertheless, it will 
take some years before most new homes 
begin to use this new technology.
that you would no longer have to 
rgy-e . The smart home 
 is working as it should, and send 
s could even be programmed to 
 advice as to the food you 
t homes will lead us to living smarter 
f today?
es?
Õ≥±‡∞ÊLearning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1 Write as many correct pairs of °∞verb + noun°± phrases as possible.
2 Complete the sentences with the adjectives in the box.
abnormal automatic available constant critical 
efficient distant instant relevant secure
1 Big data will become much more in solving crimes in the future.
2 Many smart watches can provide fitness data.
3 It is possible that this technological fantasy will come true in the future.
4 After the accident, both drivers are in condition.
5 The fridge keeps food at a low temperature.
6 The air conditioner works in mode.
7 It is important to make food and water to the survivors.
8 Houses with advanced appliances will keep us and healthy.
9 We find the German transport system to be one of the most in Europe.
10 The sensors can detect anything and automatically call someone to come and 
fix it.
3 Paraphrase the sentences using the words and phrases in brackets.
1 Care will also be taken to combine the building and surrounding architecture together to 
form an effective system. (integrate)
2 We will probably benefit from remote-controlled houses. (potentially)
3 He insisted that everything in the smart home would be all right. However, I could not help 
but feel anxious. (nevertheless)
4 It is a good habit to make certain that you know what is happening with your blood 
pressure. (keep track of) 
5 The monitoring system sends out warnings as soon as the car begins to leak oil. (the instant)
EXAMPLE detect potential dangers, have fantasies, °≠
Verbs£∫detect, integrate, leak, switch 
on/off, monitor, cure, have, become, 
issue, encourage, repair, reject
Nouns£∫a preference, routine, a warning, cancer, 
learning, the heater, air quality, potential dangers, 
oil, innovation, the electrical wiring, fantasies
Future life
4 Add more elements in the mind map to build up your vocabulary.
Houses
integrated 
sensors, °≠
Transport
driverless 
cars, °≠
Health
health
monitoring, 
°≠Security
machines to
detect
disasters, °≠
Work
16 UNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
ur vocabulary.
Work
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
Discover useful structures
1 Look at the sentences below. One is in the simple future tense. The other is 
in the future progressive tense. What different impressions do they make?
? In the future, we will use advanced technology every day for automatic control of just about 
everything in our home.
? In the future, we will be using advanced technology every day for automatic control of just 
about everything in our home.
Find more sentences using the future progressive tense from the unit. 
Rewrite them using the simple future tense. Try to feel the different 
impressions they make. 
2 Read the passage and complete the following sentences.
Jack goes to school every weekday. He leaves home at 6:45 and arrives at school at about 7:30. 
His morning classes begin at 8:00 and continue until 12:15. Then he has lunch, which takes 
about half an hour. His classes begin again at 1:30 in the afternoon and end at 3:50. He goes 
to the school°Øs football club at 4:30 and finishes practice at 6:00. He arrives home at about 6:45. 
Every day he follows the same routine and tomorrow will be no exception.
1 At 6:30 a.m. tomorrow, ... A he°Øll be leaving the house. B he°Øll be at home.
2 At 8:10 a.m. tomorrow, ... A he°Øll be having a class. B he°Øll have a class.
3 At 12:30 tomorrow, ... A he°Øll be having lunch. B he°Øll have lunch.
4 At 5:00 p.m. tomorrow, ... A he°Øll be practising football. B he°Øll practise football.
5 At 6:45 p.m. tomorrow, ... A he°Øll be arriving home. B he°Øll arrive home.
3 Fill in the blanks with the proper forms of the verbs in brackets.
1 You can call me then. I (not sleep). 
2 They set off at 9:00 a.m. and thought they (reach) the airport an hour later.
3 Will you (wait) for me until I find the electrical wires?
4 Better not hang out with Sam then. He (work) on his article on critical 
thinking. 
5 I guess most parents (support) the new plan at the meeting tomorrow.
4 Work in pairs. Read the travel plan and make up a conversation using the 
future progressive tense. 
Monday Fly to Beijing from Melbourne, arrive at 10:00 a.m.; Visit the Summer Palace in the 
afternoon
Tuesday Morning: visit the Palace Museum; Afternoon: go to Wangfujing Street
Wednesday Go to the Great Wall, three hours' drive there and back
Thursday Go sightseeing in Shichahai; Visit National Museum of China
Friday Trip to Zhangjiako
Saturday Back to Beijing in the afternoon; Watch Beijing Opera at the Mei Lanfang Theatre. 
Sunday Return to Melbourne 
17

.m.; Visit the Summer Palace in the 
o to Wangfujing Street
d back
um of China
Opera at the Mei Lanfang Theatre. 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUsing Language
1 What do these pictures show? Match the words with the pictures.
2 Discuss these questions in groups.
1 How do you think these events or such 
technology might develop in the future?
2 What challenges might they bring?
3 What opportunities might they bring?
Make predictions about future changes
automation 
nanobots
global warming
artificial 
intelligence (AI)
cloning
¢Ÿ ¢⁄
¢€ ¢‹
¢›
When listening for predictions, you 
should listen for the use of the future 
tense, in particular the future tense 
with will or will be doing. Words such 
as predict, prediction, and forecast, are 
also used quite often when making 
predictions.
Listen for predictions
18 UNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
¢›
hen listening for predictions, you 
ould listen for the use of the future 
nse, in particular the future tense 
ith will or will be doing. Words such 
 predict, prediction, and forecast, are 
so used quite often when making 
sten for predictions
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
3 Listen to a radio interview with Dr Han and Vincent Black giving their predictions 
about the future, and then fill in the table below.
4 Work in pairs. Discuss whether you think Dr Han and Vincent Black°Øs predictions 
are possible. Why or why not?
5 In groups, brainstorm about the future. Discuss these points.
? future events or problems the world might face
? future technologies
? how these things will change the way we live
? the challenges and opportunities these things might bring
6 Imagine that you have a job that makes you an expert in the future. In pairs, 
interview each other about your jobs and predictions. Use the expressions in the 
box to help you.
Listening and Speaking
I think/believe/predict that in the future °≠
By 2030, we will °≠
I can imagine/forecast °≠
One challenge will be °≠
We will be doing °≠
My prediction is that °≠
In the (distant) future there will °≠
I doubt/don°Øt think that °≠
We will have the opportunity to °≠
We are going to °≠
Name Occupation Prediction
Dr Han
Vincent Black
Making predictions
19
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUsing Language
1 Read the text and then decide whether the statements on page 21 are true (T) or 
false (F).
Welcome or reject future changes
20 UNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
SHOULD WE FIGHT NEW TECHNOLOGY?
This morning, I saw the shocking headline: °∞Passenger Dies When Car Crashes in Driverless 
Mode°±. In the article, various people said that the public should oppose the idea of developing 
driverless cars. They said that some advances in technology were unnecessary and could 
even be dangerous. Hence, we should cease accepting technology just because it is new. The 
newspaper reported that the car company had already apologised for the accident, but the 
families of the deceased said it was not enough. Nevertheless, the company still claimed that 
most people would be travelling in driverless cars one day soon.
On the one hand, there are many different groups of people around the world who live happily 
in the absence of new technology. Probably the most well-known are the Amish, a group 
of Christians living in rural America. They do not own or drive cars, watch TV, or use the 
Internet. They have lived mainly as farmers since the 18th century, and they will probably 
be living the same way in the distant future. They advocate a simple life with an emphasis
on hard work, family, and community. They think that is better than caring about luxuries or 
following the lives of the rich and famous. It could even be argued that the Amish°Øs quality 
of life is better since they live in and appreciate the natural environment rather than living in 
large, polluted cities.
On the other hand, new technology has provided people everywhere with many benefits over 
the years. For example, the latest weather-tracking computer programmes give people lots of 
warnings about potential natural disasters, which saves many lives. Moreover, the Internet has 
made it possible for friends and family to keep in touch easily even if they are on opposite 
sides of the world. It has also made finding opportunities in life much easier, as it allows 
people to make larger networks of friends through using social media.
Personally, I have benefited quite a lot from technological advances. I found my career as an 
AI designer through a social media network. My health monitor, which I wear all the time, has 
also helped me get into the best shape of my life. Of course, when new technology changes 
the way we live, it can be a scary prospect. Nevertheless, I will always look on the positive 
side of change and accept it rather than resist it.
ances. I found my career as an 
r, which I wear all the time, has 
when new technology changes 
ill always look on the positive 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
1 A person died in an accident while driving a car. T F2 The Amish avoid new technology because they do not want to have good lives. T F3 Many disasters have been prevented by weather-tracking computer programmes. T F4 Building large networks through social media helps us find new opportunities. T F5 The author uses a health monitor to know how much exercise he/she needs. T F2 Answer the following questions about the text.
1 In which paragraphs does the author:
	 ? describe the issue?	
	 ? give an opinion?	
	 ? discuss the advantages?	
	 ? discuss the disadvantages?	
2 Underline the signpost words or phrases in the text. How do they help tell us the purpose of the 
paragraphs?
3 Why did the author decide to write about this topic?
3 Use what you have learnt to express your opinion in an essay about the changes 
that could be caused by advances in technology. 
1 Work in groups. Brainstorm some future advances in technology, and their possible advantages 
and disadvantages.
Some words and phrases are used as 
signposts to help show a paragraph°Øs 
purpose. These usually come at the 
beginning or end of a paragraph.
Signposts
Advance in technology Advantage Disadvantage
2 Choose one of these advances in technology and answer the questions.
? Why do you want to write about this topic?
	 ? What is your own opinion on the topic?
3 Write your opinion in an essay.
4 Exchange your draft with a partner. 
1 Use the checklist to help you review your partner°Øs draft.
  Does the essay say what the writer thinks about the topic?
  Does the body discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the advance?
  Are signposts used to help the reader understand the purpose of each paragraph?
  Does the conclusion state the writer°Øs position? 
2 Take your draft back and revise it.
5 Share your essay with the rest of the class.
21
e topic?
 ntages of the advance?
  the purpose of each paragraph?
 Õ≥±‡∞Ê1 Complete the dialogues with the correct forms of the words in the box.
1 A: Why are you so concerned?
  B: We can°Øt win the case in the of relevant evidence.
2 A: It°Øs difficult to make accurate  about the effects on the environment.
  B: I couldn°Øt agree more. We should place more on environmental protection.
3 A: What are you working on?
  B: I°Øm writing an on how to integrate individuals°Ø values and society°Øs needs.
4 A: How do you find working in your new office?
  B: It°Øs great! The office allows users to share files and software, and to use a 
  central printer.
5 A: I don°Øt quite understand your choice. What might be the advantages of living in remote 
  areas?
  B: The of getting a high-paying job is low, but I find it more meaningful to help 
people there. In addition, I have the of breathing fresh air every day.
2 Read an introduction to the Future Library project. Fill in the blanks using the correct 
forms of the words in the box. 
The Future Library is a project by the artist Katie Paterson. It began with the cutting 
down of trees in a forest north of Oslo, Norway, in 2014. The Future Library Trust 
  wood from these trees to build a special room°™the Silent Room°™in the 
Oslo Public Library. In place of the trees that had been cleared, 1,000 new trees were 
planted. Every year from 2014 until 2114, a different popular author one 
original story, and the librarians  all the stories in the Silent Room, where 
visitors can look at them but not read them. In 2114, the organisers the 
1,000 trees that were planted back in 2014. They will then use the wood for publishing 
the 100 books in the Silent Room. So, in 2114, people books that were 
made from trees that are growing right now. 
Assessing Your Progress
  What new advances in technology introduced in this unit interested you?
  How have your opinions about advances in technology changed because of this unit?
  What advances in technology would you like to learn more about?
  Overall, I thought this unit was cool useful so-so difficult.
REFLECTING 
luxury  prospect  rural  absence
prediction essay  network  emphasis
cut down
keep
use
write
read
22 UNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE
ople books that were 
interested you?
 nged because of this unit?
 e about?
 difficult.
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 2 LOOKING INTO THE FUTURE 23
23
1 Imagine that your 50-year-old future self has sent you a letter about your future 
career. What would that letter contain? Work in groups. Discuss the questions.
1 Which careers are you interested in?
2 How might future advances in technology change those careers?
3 What are the advantages and disadvantages of these future careers?
4 How might you best prepare for your future careers?
2 Choose the most interesting future career, and write a personal letter to yourself 
from the future about that career. Your letter may include:
? a description of the future career
? the advantages and disadvantages of the career
? the preparations that are (or are not) needed for the career
? drawings or photos illustrating the career
? a greeting and closing 
  Use the letter below to help you.
*Project: Write a letter to yourself from the future
Dear Past Bingbing,
Hi! I°Øm Bingbing, your future self! I know that you are really worried about your future 
career, so I wanted to write this letter to put your mind at rest. 
I°Øm sorry to say that you won°Øt become a pilot as you wanted. In the future, large 
passenger airplanes will fly themselves and won°Øt need pilots. But there is a big problem 
in the future that you don't have now: no one uses cars anymore°™they use personal jet 
packs. As you can imagine, the skies over the city get pretty busy! Someone needs to 
control all these people so they don°Øt have accidents. And that°Øs what you do: you°Øre a jet 
pack air traffic controller.
One really good point about your job is that you don°Øt have to leave home. Instead, you°Øll 
use a virtual reality headset and microphone to do your job while you are sitting on the sofa 
drinking tea. But you will have to work on your people skills, as you will be talking to 
people all day. The bad point? Too many jet packs in the sky! Sometimes it can be kind of 
tense, and some people don't like to obey the rules or be told what to do.
All in all, I think you°Øll be happy with this job. But of course you will, because you°Øre me! 
Stop worrying! Your future is going to be great. Trust me. 
  
Best regards,
Future Bingbing
3 Take turns presenting your letters 
in class. Then vote on the most 
interesting letter.
23
23
, 
! Sometimes it can be kind of 
hat to do.
 you will, because you°Øre me! 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊBEFORE YOU WATCH
Predict what you are going to see. Think and circle the correct word(s) for 
each sentence.
1 RoboBees are like bees in that they fly independently/together, but all work independently/
together.
2 Robert Wood is an explorer/a roboticist.
3 In the future, RoboBees could help explorers/policemen and doctors/photographers.
4 All of the RoboBees have crashed/flown successfully.
5 Like bees, every RoboBee has a job to do/obeys a queen bee.
WHILE YOU WATCH
1 Check your answers in Before You Watch. 
2 Complete the quotes by Robert Wood with words you hear in the video.
1 °≠ robotics is the . It°Øs the next big thing to in 
areas from medicine to even things like .2 We use nature to that we build.
3 °≠ they can be quite useful for applications where you wouldn°Øt or 
an animal °≠
4 If you don°Øt fail, you .5 If you want to make something fly, in nature. 
AFTER YOU WATCH
Discuss these questions in groups.
1 What might be some advantages of having many small robots that work together rather 
than one large robot?
2 Specifically, how might RoboBees be used in a future application?
3 What other kinds of robots can be created from nature (e.g., a robotic lion or snake)? How 
might these robots be used?
Flight of the RoboBee
RoboBees are small flying robots that are 
being developed at the Wyss Institute of 
Harvard University by a team headed by 
Robert Wood. 
* Video Time
in nature. 
robots that work together rather 
lication?
.g., a robotic lion or snake)? How 
Õ≥