Describe people of achievement
1 Before you read, discuss these questions in groups.
2 Scan the text and find descriptive words about 
Tu Youyou. 
Find descriptive words
Pay attention to the descriptive 
words in a passage. These will 
help you form a better impression 
of the subject described in the 
passage.
1 What kind of person makes great discoveries?
2 Which is more important for making a great 
discovery, talent or effort?
TU YOUYOU AWARDED NOBEL PRIZE
  6 October 2015
This year°Øs Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine has been 
awarded to Tu Youyou (co-winner), whose research led to the 
discovery of artemisinin, a crucial new treatment for malaria. 
Artemisinin has saved hundreds of thousands of lives, and 
has led to improved health for millions of people. Over 200 
million people around the world get malaria each year, and 
about 600,000 die from it. Artemisinin has become a vital part 
of the treatment for malaria, and is thought to save 100,000 lives 
a year in Africa alone.
Tu Youyou, a committed and patient scientist, was born in Ningbo, China, on 
30 December 1930, and graduated from Peking University Medical School in 
1955. After she graduated, she worked at the China Academy of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine in Beijing. In 1967, the Chinese government formed a team 
of scientists with the objective of discovering a new treatment for malaria, and 
Tu Youyou was among the first researchers chosen. In the beginning, Tu Youyou 
went to Hainan, where malaria was more common, to study malaria patients. 
In 1969, she became the head of the project in Beijing, and decided to review 
ancient Chinese medical texts to find traditional botanical treatments for the 
disease. Her team examined over 2,000 old medical texts, and evaluated
280,000 plants for their medical properties. From their research, they discovered 
and tested 380 distinct ancient Chinese medical treatments that showed 
promise in the fight against malaria. 
One medical text from the fourth century suggested using the extract from 
sweet wormwood to treat a fever. Tu°Øs team tested a collection of dried 
wormwood leaves but found no effect. They then tried boiling fresh wormwood, 
and using the liquid obtained from this to treat malaria, but this did not work 
either. Their project got stuck. However, Tu Youyou would not acknowledge 
defeat. She analysed the medical texts again, and by chance, she found one 
sentence suggesting a different way to treat the wormwood. She concluded 
that boiling the sweet wormwood apparently destroyed its medical properties. 
2 UNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
, 
research, they discovered 
treatments that showed 
d using the extract from 
ed a collection of dried 
 boiling fresh wormwood, 
ria, but this did not work 
would not acknowledge 
y chance, she found one 
rmwood. She concluded 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
5 Complete the flow chart. Then tell the story of how artemisinin was discovered.
Using a lower temperature to draw out the extract, she found a substance that 
worked. After failing more than 190 times, the team finally succeeded in 1971. 
Tu Youyou and her team members even insisted on testing the medicine on 
themselves to make sure that it was safe. Later, the medicine was tested on 
malaria patients, most of whom recovered. This medicine, which was called 
artemisinin, soon became a standard treatment for malaria. 
According to Tu Youyou, the discovery of artemisinin was a team effort. Upon 
hearing that she had been awarded the Nobel Prize, she said, °∞The honour is 
not just mine. There is a team behind me, and all the people of my country. 
This success proves the great value of traditional Chinese medicine. It is indeed 
an honour for China°Øs scientific research and Chinese medicine to be spread 
around the world.°± 
4 Read the text again and answer the questions.
1 Why is the discovery of artemisinin important?
2 What was the key to getting a good extract from the wormwood?
3 What numbers are mentioned in the text? What do they suggest
4 Why is Tu Youyou considered a great person?
3 Circle the answers to the questions below.
1 Where would you most likely find this passage?
A In a blog. B In a book. C In a letter. D In a newspaper.
2 Passages like this are most often written in and .A the active voice/offer many opinions B the first person/talk about feelings
C both active and passive voices/mostly contain facts
3 Which two pieces of information were not included in the passage?
  A A quote from Tu Youyou. 
  B The details of how artemisinin was discovered.
  C Tu Youyou°Øs important contributions other than the discovery of artemisinin.
  D Tu Youyou°Øs personal life.
  E Tu Youyou°Øs road to discovering artemisinin. 
  F What Tu Youyou was awarded.
  G Why artemisinin is an important discovery.
Tu Youyou°Øs team examined 
, and 
evaluated .They found a medical text 
suggesting .They tested 
.They tried
, 
but .They used a the 
sweet wormwood extract.
They tested the 
medicine 
to see if safe.
They tested the 
medicine on 
.The medicine became 
  for 
malaria.
w artemisinin was discovered.
sugges
They tested 
.
They tried
, 
but .
They used a the 
sweet wormwood extract.
Õ≥±‡∞ÊLearning About Language
Build up your vocabulary
1 Write down the word that matches each definition. Then find the sentences 
containing these words in the text.
1 cook something in very hot water 
2 relating to plants
3 qualities or characteristics of something
4 a kind of substance that flows freely, such as water or milk
5 physical material that exists
2 Guess the meaning of the underlined words. Then fill in the blanks with 
words that have the same roots.
3 Read the passage about Lu Xun. Fill in the blanks with the correct forms of 
the words in the box. 
4 In pairs, discuss how people can achieve success, using words and expressions 
you have learnt in this unit.
1 The two flowers are quite distinct from one another, so it is easy to make a 
between them. 
2 Scientists need to how the new material stands up to wear and tear to prove 
how valuable it is.
3 A talented scientist well known for his to his country, Huang Danian 
committed himself to his research in geophysics.
4 A: Did you come to any conclusions?
B: Yes, we that by drawing out the extract at a low temperature, we could 
find the substance that we needed to complete the experiment.
5 She spends a lot of time her patients°Ø dreams. This analysis is very helpful, 
explaining their daily behaviour very well. 
insist obtain objective acknowledge apparently crucial
Lu Xun, as one of the greatest modern writers in China, was born in Shaoxing, 
Zhejiang Province in 1881. In 1904, he went to Japan and became a medical student, with 
the of improving people°Øs health and saving lives. However, he changed his 
mind when he saw in a photo a Chinese man about to be killed by a Japanese soldier. It 
struck him that the other Chinese men in the photo did not care about what 
was happening to their fellow countrymen. From this, he concluded that the 
problem in China was not physical illness, but the spiritual illness of people at that time. 
Following this, he quit medical school. When he returned to China in 1908, he 
a teaching job. In 1917, a friend that he help write for a magazine called New 
Youth. That was how his first famous short story A Madman°Øs Diary got published. 
4 UNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
using words and expressions 
became a medical student, with 
 lives. However, he changed his 
 killed by a Japanese soldier. It 
did not care about what 
ncluded that the 
al illness of people at that time. 
China in 1908, he 
 write for a magazine called New 
 Diary got published. 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
Discover useful structures 
1 Read the following sentences and underline the relative clauses. Then name 
the two types of clauses and state their functions.
2 Rewrite the sentences using non-restrictive relative clauses. How do the 
sentences flow differently?
3 Work in groups. Complete the sentences using non-restrictive relative clauses 
to give extra information. Then share them with your group members.
? They tested hundreds of Chinese medical treatments that showed promise in the fight 
against the disease.
? Tu Youyou was awarded the Nobel Prize, which is considered one of the highest 
international honours a person can receive.
? Tu Youyou went to Hainan, where malaria was more common, to study malaria patients.
? Later, the medicine was tested on malaria patients, most of whom recovered.
The book tells us about Alexander Fleming. He discovered penicillin.
The book tells us about Alexander Fleming, who discovered penicillin.
1 We were very impressed by the old man. He was not willing to acknowledge defeat. 
2 Afterwards, Einstein had to flee Germany. Hitler was in power there. 
3 There is nothing we can do to help Linda. Her circumstances are beyond our control. 
4 The teacher asked us to listen to a speech by his favourite novelist, J.K. Rowling. It inspired 
us a lot.
5 The building under construction was designed by I.M. Pei°™a famous Chinese-American 
architect. He was born in Guangzhou, China. 
6 I was asked to explain the project with the help of a flow chart. It was a big challenge 
for me. 
EXAMPLE
  EXAMPLE
I°Ød like to try °≠, °≠ 
I°Ød like to try that Chinese herbal medicine again, which seems to work best for my cough.
1 I would like to travel around °≠, °≠ 
2 What impressed me most °≠, °≠ 
3 My favourite scientist is °≠, °≠ 
4 Finally we arrived at °≠, °≠
5 My grandparents like °≠, °≠ 
6 I wish to obtain °≠, °≠
7 My best friend °≠, °≠
ms to work best for my cough.
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUsing Language
1 Match the people with their achievements. Then listen to a conversation between 
Dr Wang, his daughter Wang Lin, and his daughter°Øs friend Anna, and check your 
answers. 
2 Listen to the conversation again. Who does each speaker admire? Tick in the 
table below.
Explore the meaning of greatness
3 Listen again and answer the questions.
1 Elon Musk A founder of modern nursing 
2 Bill Gates B founded high-tech and futuristic companies
3 Jack Ma (Ma Yun) C managed the SARS outbreak
4 Alexander Fleming D made great advancement in online shopping 
5 Florence Nightingale E made home computing accessible
6 Zhong Nanshan F discovered penicillin
Name  Dr Wang  Wang Lin Anna Smith
Elon Musk
Bill Gates
Jack Ma
Zhong Nanshan
Florence Nightingale
Alexander Fleming
Dr Wang
1 Why does Dr Wang say °∞money isn°Øt everything°±?
2 What is the real reason Anna admires the famous people, 
and what examples does she give?
3 What kind of person do you think Wang Lin admires? 
Why?
Listen for reasons
When people give their opinions 
or decisions on a matter, they often 
give reasons for them. Sometimes, 
the reason is introduced by words 
such as?because?or?due to. At other 
times, the reason is given right 
after the opinion or decision, and 
the link can be inferred.
6 UNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
, 
 
Listen for reasons
When people give their opinions 
or decisions on a matter, they often 
give reasons for them. Sometimes, 
the reason is introduced by words 
such as?because?or?due to. At other 
times, the reason is given right 
after the opinion or decision, and 
the link can be inferred.
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
Listening and Speaking
4 Work in groups. Brainstorm the names of some great people and write them 
in the table below.
5 Discuss what makes these people great. Try to use the following language fillers 
to give yourself time to think. 
6 Use your discussion to draw conclusions about the meaning of greatness. 
The following expressions may help you. Then report back to the class.
(Er/Oh/Um,) let me see/think °≠  Right./Sure.
Well, er, °≠  Really?
Yeah, I mean, I understand what you°Øre saying °≠ Well, I guess °≠
Anyway, ...  You see/know, °≠
Just a moment.  So, ...
Hang on a second.  Well, it°Øs on the tip of my tongue.
May I think about that for a moment?  I°Øve nearly got it, er, °≠
How can/shall/should I put this/it? What I want to say is ...
Let me think about this/that for a moment.
The greatest person I know of is ..., who ...
To be great, a person should ...
To me, greatness means ...
Why do you think that?
That°Øs true, but ...
I want to be like because he/she °≠
has achieved financial success
has invented new products
has made great discoveries
serves as a good role model
brings happiness to other people
makes great contributions to society
Giving time to think
Ordinary people
Environmentalists
Inventors
Scientists 
Explorers
s achieved financial success
s invented new products
s made great discoveries
rves as a good role model
ings happiness to other people
akes great contributions to society
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUsing Language
8 UNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
1 What do you know about Albert Einstein? Read the text and complete the timeline. 
Then introduce Einstein°Øs life story and achievements in your own words.
Introduce someone you admire
THE MAN WHO CHANGED OUR UNDERSTANDING OF THE UNIVERSE
Albert Einstein, who is perhaps the greatest scientist in modern physics, 
is often considered one of the smartest men who ever lived. He made 
numerous contributions to the world, the most well-known being 
the general theory of relativity and the famous formula E=mc2
. 
Einstein was not only a genius; he was a courageous and kind 
figure loved by many people.
This gentle genius was born in Germany on 14 March 1879. 
When he was 16, he tried to enter university in Switzerland, but 
failed due to his low scores in the general part of the entrance 
exam, despite obtaining exceptional scores in maths and physics. 
After studying for another year, he managed to pass the exam, 
entering university in 1896 and graduating in 1900. 
After two years of looking for work as a teacher, Einstein took a job 
as a clerk in the Swiss patent office. While working there, out of a strong 
passion for knowledge, he continued to study, earning a doctorate in physics 
in 1905. That same year, which was later recorded as a miracle year in science, he 
published four extraordinary physics papers. Following this, he gradually became 
famous throughout the world as the new Isaac Newton. After four years, he was able to 
quit his job at the patent office and enter research full-time at a university. In 1922, he 
was awarded the 1921 Nobel Prize for Physics for his explanation of the photoelectric 
effect. 
Circumstances changed in 1933, when Hitler came to power in Germany. Einstein, who 
was Jewish, found the doors of academic institutions closed to him. As a consequence, 
he had to flee Germany. After spending time in Europe, he finally took up a position as 
a researcher at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, USA. Following that, he 
continued to make great achievements in physics and mathematics.
To the public, he was seen as a slightly odd-looking but kind and funny man. He had a 
thick moustache and long white hair, which sometimes stood on end as though he had 
just received an electric shock. Although he was a genius, he sometimes forgot things, 
like his friends°Ø birthdays. But despite his peculiarities, he was loved by his friends and 
neighbours. There is even a story about how he helped a little girl who knocked on his 
door and asked for help with her homework. In fact, Einstein often encountered people 
. , 
a researcher at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, USA. Following that, he 
continued to make great achievements in physics and mathematics.
o the public, he was seen as a slightly odd-looking but kind and funny man. He had a 
hick moustache and long white hair, which sometimes stood on end as though he had 
ust received an electric shock. Although he was a genius, he sometimes forgot things, 
ike his friends°Ø birthdays. But despite his peculiarities, he was loved by his friends and 
eighbours. There is even a story about how he helped a little girl who knocked on his 
oor and asked for help with her homework. In fact, Einstein often encountered people 
on the street who would stop him and ask him to help explain things. After many such 
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
  Does the writer describe the person°Øs appearance and personality?
  Does the writer tell an impressive story of the person°Øs life?
  Does the writer say why the person is great?
  Does the writer sum up how he/she feels about this person?
2 In pairs, discuss the following questions.
1 Apart from his remarkable achievements, what does the passage tell us about Einstein°Øs life?
2 What impressed you most about Einstein? State your reasons. 
4 Write an introduction about someone you admire.
3 Study the organisation and language features.
6 Share your introduction with the rest of the class.
5 Exchange your draft with a partner.
1 Choose the person you are going to write about. It should be someone you think is great in 
some way. It can be an ordinary person, such as a parent, a relative, or a friend. 
2 Make a list of things that need to be included in your introduction.
3 Use your notes to write your introduction and sum up how you feel about this person.
1 What type of writing is this text? How does the writer develop the text? 
2 Find the descriptions that tell us what Einstein looked like and what kind of person he was. 
3 What rhetorical devices are used in the passage? Give examples.
1 Use the checklist to help you review your partner°Øs draft.
2 Take your draft back and revise it.
1879 1896
1900 1905 1922
1933
1955
Born in Germany
occasions, he finally started saying, °∞Pardon me! Sorry! Always I am mistaken for 
Professor Einstein!°±
On 18 April 1955, it was reported that Einstein had passed away, and the whole world 
mourned the great loss of a brilliant scientist. 
 and personality?
 on°Øs life?
 is person?
Õ≥±‡∞Ê1 Complete the sentences with the correct forms of the words in the box.
1 To our surprise, he was actually the and caring father of three children. 
2 To , his fame and wealth were gained through hard work and his in-depth 
knowledge of his business. 
3 A genius for invention, Thomas Edison obtained scores of .4 Under no should we do terrible things to other people. 
5 As a botanist, he takes notes on the properties of any plant he .6 The first-person narrator is a stylistic device that has been used by many and 
poets throughout the ages.
2 What do you know about Sun Yat-sen? Read the passage, and then fill in the 
blanks with relative pronouns or adverbs.
Assessing Your Progress
  Did this unit cause you to change your thoughts about greatness? If so, how?
  Will what you have learnt in this unit inspire you to improve yourself? If so, how?
  What was the most important idea that you learnt in this unit?
  Overall, I thought this unit was inspiring useful so-so difficult.
REFLECTING 
Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925) was widely considered to be the founder and forerunner of 
modern China. He was only in power for a short time, when he was president of the country 
in 1912. So it may seem odd to some people knowledge of China may be 
limited that he is such an important figure. However, his influence is not based on his time 
in office, but on his continuous struggle for a better society and his concern for all Chinese 
people. He also put forward many advanced ideas brought the Chinese 
people together, in particular, the Three Principles of the People. These principles were 
inspired by Lincoln, he admired, and were developed when he was travelling 
overseas, he went to find support for his country. The first principle is about 
nationalism, indicates that China should never be divided and should not be 
under any foreign control. The second is about people°Øs rights. It means that all people have 
great value and should also have the same rights. The third is about people°Øs livelihood, 
  means that the government should create opportunities for people to make a 
good living. 
gentle sum up circumstance encounter novelist patent 
10 UNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
greatness? If so, how?
 ove yourself? If so, how?
 is unit?
 so-so difficult.
Õ≥±‡∞ÊUNIT 1 PEOPLE OF ACHIEVEMENT
1 Discuss these questions in groups.
1 Have you ever read a biography or an autobiography of a great person? Would you 
recommend this book? Why or why not?
2 Which great person would you like to read more about?
3 Where can you find recommendations for good biographies or autobiographies? 
2 Choose a biography or autobiography of a great person. Read the book, and then 
write a book report. Keep these points in mind:
? Use the examples above to help you.
? Write about how the book makes you feel or think about that person.
? Write about your overall feelings about the book and its quality.
? Give your opinion: Should others read this book as well? Why or why not?
3 Present your book report to your group. Answer any questions about the book.
*Project: Prepare a book report
  Cao Xueqin Biography
  by Li Jianshu, 2009
  (Chinese edition)
The Story of My Life 
by Helen Keller, 1903
Steve Jobs 
by Walter Isaacson, 2011
The book tells the life story 
of the novelist Cao Xueqin, 
author of The Dream of the 
Red Mansions . Cao was 
born to a rich family but 
suffered great poverty for 
most of his life. He drew on 
his life experiences to write 
this famous novel, which 
was published after his 
death.
Even though Keller wrote 
this autobiography when 
she was only 22 years old, it 
is considered a great book 
in American literature. It 
tells about her dark and 
silent childhood, and how 
her teacher, Anne Sullivan, 
opened up a new world to 
her by teaching her how to 
communicate. 
Isaacson interviewed Steve 
Jobs over forty times, and 
interviewed hundreds of 
Jobs°Ø friends, relatives, 
and rivals to sum up Jobs°Ø 
remarkable life. The result is 
an interesting story of a man 
driven to succeed and driven 
to make perfect products.
1on. Read the book, and then 
 that person.
uality.
 Why or why not?
 questions about the book.
Õ≥±‡∞ÊBEFORE YOU WATCH
Try to match the time phrases with the events in Mei Lanfang°Øs life.
1 at age 8 A born in Beijing
2 in his 20s B succeeded in taking Beijing Opera to the USA
3 in 1919 C died of heart disease
4 after eight years of attempts D developed a style called the °∞Mei Lanfang School°±
5 over 50 years on stage E began to travel and perform abroad
6 in 1961 F started to learn Beijing Opera
7 in 1894 G became known internationally for his acting skill
WHILE YOU WATCH
1 Check your answers in Before You Watch. 
2 Complete the sentences.
1 The great Indian author Rabindranath Tagore about 
Mei Lanfang.
2 In the USA, many fans after the performances to 
shake his hand.
3 Mei Lanfang brought Beijing Opera abroad so that more people could
  of Chinese culture and art.
4 When Japanese troops invaded China, Mei Lanfang .AFTER YOU WATCH
Discuss these questions in groups.
1 How did Mei Lanfang become a legend in the art of Beijing Opera?
2 Why is Mei Lanfang greatly loved by so many people?
3 Who else can you think of that has committed himself/herself to the development of China°Øs 
art or music culture?
Mei Lanfang: Great Artist, Cultural 
Ambassador
Mei Lanfang is still known today as one of the masters 
of Beijing Opera. He played a key role in bringing 
Beijing Opera to the world, leading to the international 
status and recognition that it has today. Mei Lanfang 
is still widely remembered for his skill, his kindness, 
and his deep love for his country.
* Video Time
.
 Opera?
elf to the development of China°Øs 
Õ≥